Adding support for default interface function members (#681)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/classes.md

A class is a data structure that may contain data members (constants and fields), function members (methods, properties, events, indexers, operators, instance constructors, finalizers, and static constructors), and nested types. Class types support inheritance, a mechanism whereby a ***derived class*** can extend and specialize a ***base class***.

> Structs (§16) and interfaces (§18) provide data structures that contain members similar to classes. Rules restrict the declarations for struct and interface types, and the member declarations allowed in struct and interface types. This clause defines the declarations for classes and class members. The clauses for structs and interfaces define the restrictions for those types in terms of the corresponding declarations in class types.

Reviewer: Are interfaces now data structures? §18.1 still defines them as contracts. Also “Rules restrict…” doesn’t read correctly to me.

```suggestion
Structs (§16) and interfaces (§18) have members similar to classes but with certain restrictions. This clause defines the declarations for classes and class members. The clauses for structs and interfaces define the restrictions for those types in terms of the corresponding declarations in class types.
```

Maybe?

Except for class `object`, every class has exactly one direct base class. The `object` class has no direct base class and is the ultimate base class of all other classes.

It is a compile-time error for a class to depend on itself. For the purpose of this rule, a class ***directly depends on*** its direct base class (if any) and *directly depends on* the type within which it is immediately nested (if any).

> When an interface `IB` extends an interface `IA`, it is a compile-time error for `IA` to depend on `IB`. An interface **directly depends on** its direct base interfaces (if any) and **directly depends on** the type within which it is immediately nested (if any).

Reviewer 2: Why are interfaces being mentioned here?

Except for class `object`, every class has exactly one direct base class. The `object` class has no direct base class and is the ultimate base class of all other classes.

It is a compile-time error for a class to depend on itself. For the purpose of this rule, a class ***directly depends on*** its direct base class (if any) and *directly depends on* the type within which it is immediately nested (if any).

When an interface `IB` extends an interface `IA`, it is a compile-time error for `IA` to depend on `IB`. An interface **directly depends on** its direct base interfaces (if any) and **directly depends on** the type within which it is immediately nested (if any).

> Given these definitions, the complete set of types upon which a type depends is the transitive closure of the *directly depends on* relationship.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Given these definitions, the complete set of types upon which a type depends is the reflexive and transitive closure of the *directly depends on* relationship.
```

Reviewer 3: The suggested change is required to disallow `class A : A {}`

Reviewer: It been a long day, but does not adding reflexive *require* “A depends on A” not disallow it?

Reviewer 4: I'll make the alternative suggestion to delete line 277. I don't think it's needed.

#### 15.3.9.3 Declared accessibility

Non-nested types can have `public` or `internal` declared accessibility and have `internal` declared accessibility by default. Nested types can have these forms of declared accessibility too, plus one or more additional forms of declared accessibility, depending on whether the containing type is a class, struct, or interface:

> - A nested type that is declared in a class or interface can have any of the permitted kinds of declared accessibility and, like other class members, defaults to `private` declared accessibility.

Reviewer: A class nested in an interface defaults to public, §19.4.1 says all kinds do.

Reviewer 4: Removed interface here.

## 15.4 Constants

> A ***constant*** is a class member that represents a constant value: a value that can be computed at compile-time. A *constant_declaration* introduces one or more constants of a given type. A *constant_declaration* may appear in a class, struct, or interface declaration.

Reviewer: Line 7 says this clause contains the description for classes and the struct and interface clauses contain the restrictions relative to this clause, so why here is the point being added that constants are allowed in structs & interfaces as they are unless the respective clauses include a restriction?

I would more expect such ”allowed” statements if the class/struct/interface clauses were being collapsed into one with the differences between them noted throughout the clause. However having, or not, such statements is just a style issue.

I expect as I read through there are going to be many more of these, I won't comment on them all.

Regardless, there is a small typo:

```suggestion
A ***constant*** is a class member that represents a constant value: a value that can be computed at compile-time. A *constant_declaration* introduces one or more constants of a given type. A *constant_declaration* may appear in a class, struct, or interface declarations.
```

Reviewer 4: > Line 7 says this clause contains the description for classes and the struct and interface clauses contain the restrictions relative to this clause, so why here is the point being added that constants are allowed in structs & interfaces as they are unless the respective clauses include a restriction?

I removed this, and added a statement in interfaces. I wanted to be clear that *constant_declaration*s were allowed in interfaces without any additional restrictions or rules from classes. I made that statement in interfaces.md.

### 15.6.1 General

> [§15.6](classes.md#156-methods) and its subclauses cover method declarations in classes. That text is augmented by information about declaring methods in structs ([§16.4](structs.md#164-class-and-struct-differences)) and interfaces ([§18.4.2](interfaces.md#1842-interface-methods)).

Reviewer 5: I really like this way of describing how the material is organized.

Reviewer 5: (Resolving.)

- The declaration includes at most one of the following modifiers: `static`, `virtual`, and `override`.
- The declaration includes at most one of the following modifiers: `new` and `override`.
- If the declaration includes the `abstract` modifier, then the declaration does not include any of the following modifiers: `static`, `virtual`, `sealed`, or `extern`.

> - The declaration may include the `abstract` and `override` modifiers so that an abstract member may override a virtual member.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  *Note*: The declaration may include both the `abstract` and `override` modifiers so that an abstract member may override a virtual member. *end note*
```

Happy to be overruled (overridden?) on this - it just feels like it's not something that needs to be normative, as it's already covered.

Reviewer 5: (Arguably if we're making it a note, it would be simpler to move it to after the list.)

Reviewer 5: Given that we think it has been prohibited at some point, I'm happy to keep it normative.

When an instance method declaration includes an `abstract` modifier, that method is said to be an ***abstract method***. Although an abstract method is implicitly also a virtual method, it cannot have the modifier `virtual`.

> An abstract method declaration introduces a new virtual method but does not provide an implementation of that method. Instead, non-abstract derived classes are required to provide their own implementation by overriding that method. Because an abstract method provides no actual implementation, the *method_body* of an abstract method simply consists of a semicolon.

Reviewer: “Because…” doesn’t read right to me, I’d simplify this to:

```suggestion
An abstract method declaration introduces a new virtual method but does not provide an implementation of that method. Instead, non-abstract derived classes are required to provide their own implementation by overriding that method. The *method_body* of an abstract method simply consists of a semicolon.
```

A virtual property declaration specifies that the accessors of the property are virtual. The `virtual` modifier applies to all non-private accessors of a property. When an accessor of a virtual property has the `private` *accessor_modifier*, the private accessor is implicitly not virtual.

> An abstract property declaration specifies that the accessors of the property are virtual, but does not provide an actual implementation of the accessors. Instead, non-abstract derived classes are required to provide their own implementation for the accessors by overriding the property.Because an accessor for an abstract property declaration provides no actual implementation, its *accessor_body* simply consists of a semicolon. An abstract property shall not have a `private` accessor.

Reviewer: Fix missing space:

```suggestion
An abstract property declaration specifies that the accessors of the property are virtual, but does not provide an actual implementation of the accessors. Instead, non-abstract derived classes are required to provide their own implementation for the accessors by overriding the property. Because an accessor for an abstract property declaration provides no actual implementation, its *accessor_body* simply consists of a semicolon. An abstract property shall not have a `private` accessor.
```
